Michael Hoefer: All right, Jesse. I'm jumping on with this patient, and we tell your parents that keep Lily down, please.
Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Michael Hoefer: Chopping
Michael Hoefer: Or children chocolate.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. Okay, great. So my name is Dr. Hall from a psychiatrist working with bright heart health. It's nice to meet you.
Vincent Chopyk: Nice to meet you.
Michael Hoefer: And I'm going to be doing your intake today. So we have about 3040 minutes where we're going to talk, I'm going to ask you a little bit about your opiate use but also about your medical and psychiatric history, and then we'll come up with a plan together afterwards.
Vincent Chopyk: Alright, sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: Great, so I can just start off by asking you how you heard about bright heart health.
Vincent Chopyk: My actually I saw Dr. To me, the tele doc service and he let me know about you guys, I went through that.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool. All right. And what's bringing you into treatment today and how can we be helpful.
Vincent Chopyk: So I'm just, I'm when I stopped using the opiates, about a month ago and
Vincent Chopyk: I'm just like, I was looking for some I was trying to get into a couple of different rehab facilities.
Vincent Chopyk: But they were not taking new patients because the whole coronavirus thing. And so then when I heard that there was an online one. I was like, Oh, perfect. So
Vincent Chopyk: I came here and I was just looking for some like therapy and help with because I've already made it through the withdrawal and everything and I haven't really been having much cravings, but just looking for, like, I don't know, help with like coping mechanisms and things like that.
Michael Hoefer: Some support and coping.
Vincent Chopyk: Skills and okay
Michael Hoefer: Excellent. So
Michael Hoefer: Can you tell me about, you know, the, you know, the first time you ever used opiates and what that experience was like.
Vincent Chopyk: The first time was in Vegas.
Vincent Chopyk: I went to Vegas with my friends and my girlfriend and my girlfriend had some she had had she's had some health issues in the past. And so she had a surgery and
Vincent Chopyk: They gave her pain pills and she didn't like them and made her stomach hurts. She just had him sitting around and one day I just was like, hey, I'm you know we're in Vegas. I might as well try
Vincent Chopyk: And I took that and
Vincent Chopyk: It just made me like I've always had kind of like some social anxiety and just kind of anxiety in general and
Vincent Chopyk: Like confidence issues and it just kind of like made me not care so much about like what other people think and kind of gave me so like a confidence that I've never felt before. So I liked him that it
Vincent Chopyk: Happened like just like not very often. I started like once a month, maybe, and then it just got more and more until the turn into an issue.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And that first time was how long ago was that
Vincent Chopyk: That was probably like two and a half or three years ago. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And so then, from that you started taking it.
Michael Hoefer: You know, every once awhile to more and more regularly and what type of opiates. Were you mostly taking
Vincent Chopyk: At first it was hydrocodone like North goes and then it went to then when I burn through the supply that she had had just sitting around, I started buying them on the street and it was more often oxy Kota
Vincent Chopyk: Sure. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever used heroin or fentanyl or anything like that.
Vincent Chopyk: No, just the hydro and oxycodone
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And how would you use them usually
Vincent Chopyk: I would just take them orally.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Did you ever chew them so that they would break up faster or dissolve them and liquid so that they would
Vincent Chopyk: Hit, you know, nothing like that. I was really just taking them. Yeah, I didn't. Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: And did you ever snort them or inject them or anything like that. I
Vincent Chopyk: One time I tried snorting, some of it, but I didn't like
Vincent Chopyk: I didn't really it was hydrocodone and it was very low like five milligram pill or something and I had just heard that that was something you could do. So I tried it, like maybe once and I didn't really like feel anything. So I just continue to take it orally.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And what type of doses of when you started, especially when you started buying the oxy code on what type of dosing where you take you
Vincent Chopyk: In the beginning it was like just five milligrams of oxy or maybe 10 at a time, then as it went on, it started to get like to 20 milligrams. Each time I would take it and it was
Vincent Chopyk: Like twice to three times a day. I would do it like when I got off work. And then a few hours later, and then a few hours later at like 11 or something. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. So kind of escalating doses.
Michael Hoefer: escalating tolerance and and how much were you spending because oxy cotton could be expensive.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, it was a lot. I was burning through a lot of my money. It was like like honey, like a least a couple hundred a week or so. Yeah.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, run out of money and I I worked at a pharmacy for a long time and
Vincent Chopyk: ended up going back and I didn't have the intention of doing it, but it ended up. I ended up taking pills from work and I got caught doing that and was charged with embezzlement a misdemeanor. So now I've been dealing with that kind of that's kind of what gave me the wake up call.
Vincent Chopyk: To stop and get some help.
Michael Hoefer: So that experience was a was a clear kind of wake up call, and I
Michael Hoefer: Clearly not in a good direction and
Michael Hoefer: I'm doing things that I didn't think I would do, you know,
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, like I've just never been that type, and I loved that job to like I worked there for so long. And then I left for a little while and then I came back because I hated the job that I got. And yeah like I love the job. I loved all the people there and I just screwed everything up.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah, that's a, that's a tough spot. And, um, you know, other things. Like, have you ever had like an overdose to where you need to, nor can
Michael Hoefer: That
Vincent Chopyk: My dad's a pharmacist as well.
Vincent Chopyk: Like, and so I've always kind of felt like in control of like using drugs recreationally just because I knew about them like more than the average person because my dad's a pharmacist.
Vincent Chopyk: And so I never really had issues like that. It was more the like I wasn't in it for like, like a peak high like trying to get a bunch at one time it was more like longevity.
Vincent Chopyk: I wanted to like keep them and take just the same amount like and trying to keep them as long as I could, like, keep going. There wasn't like a really like a binge type of thing.
Michael Hoefer: Is more time to like maintain that level of
Vincent Chopyk: Content.
Michael Hoefer: Or good feeling or just stress reduction.
Vincent Chopyk: Over. Yeah, definitely. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And does your to your parents at all our family know about your use. And what's been going on.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, now that I wasn't that I had to call my mom to bail me out of jail.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, that was, that was pretty tough. That was kind of
Michael Hoefer: A hard phone call. Yeah, I was.
Vincent Chopyk: I had kind of mentioned to them before like nobody had any idea how much I was doing it. Mm hmm. But I kind of mentioned that I was like taking them once in a while.
Vincent Chopyk: Just because I liked how it made me feel and but yeah. Nobody really knew how much to the extent. But then once I once I had to have them bail me out. Like I told them everything
Michael Hoefer: And are they are they supportive of you kind of getting treatment and
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, they are. They've actually been really good about it like they've
Vincent Chopyk: They've approached this time DIFFERENT THAN THEY'VE approached things before, which is nice. Like, usually they kind of come down on me hard, but this time they've been like being a little more
Vincent Chopyk: Just yeah like supportive rather than angry.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Great. So, so some of the, you know, issues or problems, the obese is causing your life is, you know, issues at work legal issues, issues with family financial issues. Any other things that that that the problems that you're open uses cause you
Vincent Chopyk: My relationship. I've been with my girlfriend Diana for like almost six years and, like, once I started doing that.
Vincent Chopyk: Taking them a lot than our relationship started to get pretty rocky and right now she's back home and Colombia. She's from Colombia and
Vincent Chopyk: She might be stuck there for a while and right now I don't know if when she comes back. I don't know if we're still going to be in a relationship, but we'll see. We'll see what happens there. But yeah, I kind of messed up my relationship to
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and was. That was the tension in the relationship about you just kind of being intoxicated not available or was it about you kind of not being truthful or was it about like, you know, sexual effects of opiates, or a combination of them or what
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, it was kind of like, yeah, it was emotionally less available like just having the pills was like the only thing I like cared about, like, really. And yeah, just being less like helpful and supportive around the apartment and like
Vincent Chopyk: With the sexual stuff it, it kind of helped actually with that because like my sexual appetite is like a lot higher than hers. She's had
Vincent Chopyk: She had a hysterectomy pretty young. And so she's gone through menopause and so like her sex drive isn't always
Vincent Chopyk: You know as high as mine is. And so that kind of caused some friction before in our relationship. But then like with the pills. I had kind of a lower sex drive, like I wasn't as, like, yeah, just wasn't as high. So, but all the other things just send it up. Yeah, like kind of ruin it.
Michael Hoefer: And are you guys about the same age or she, a little bit older, are you a little bit older.
Vincent Chopyk: She's a little bit older, she's I'm 26 and she is 30 yeah 30 about to be 31
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. So not that big of a difference, but
Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: And did you, you know, how was it for you. It sounds like you've stopped now for a month, but had you had had previously like attempts to quit and you know how to then they weren't successful or weren't successful, how did that go
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I had tried a couple times and there was a few times where I just ran out and couldn't get more where I would kind of experience that withdraw and
Vincent Chopyk: Then there was a few times where I just wanted to stop because I nobody else really knew because I didn't really tell tell anyone about it, but I can tell that it was becoming an issue, and like I just wanted
Vincent Chopyk: To stop and then it would be I would stop and make it through the withdrawals and would be feeling okay and then like a week or two later on a Friday I would
Vincent Chopyk: Just get more and then just say go back from the start, start over. And that happened, maybe like three or four times like where I tried and then just went back to it.
Michael Hoefer: And when you went back to it. Did you ever did you feel
Michael Hoefer: Like it was ever because you like stress or boredom, or was it just kind of like a craving and it just would just hit you and you kind of
Michael Hoefer: triggers for you going back
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I think it was more like stress and boredom, like it was just like on Friday, like I wanted to do something to make me. Yeah, kind of a stress relief and make me feel like I don't know. I was doing something like other than just sitting around my apartment. So I would take those
Vincent Chopyk: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever taken either methadone in a tablet or liquid form. I mean, take
Vincent Chopyk: One time I only once, I found a methadone on the ground at work. And I took that because I knew that it was used to kind of help like people get through.
Vincent Chopyk: Like I wasn't exactly sure how it works. But I took that just to see like if it would help me like stop taking it. And one of the times and then
Vincent Chopyk: I don't really remember like I remember taking it and then not taking anything else for a couple days, but then like once it kind of wore off. I was just right back.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever taken buprenorphine or Suboxone before
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, there was a couple. I like. Again, I found because there's always pills falling around everywhere at work.
Vincent Chopyk: And like I found a couple of buprenorphine on the ground is the only ones. I actually like took out of prescription bottles. When I got caught for that was the, those were only
Vincent Chopyk: hydrocodone oxycodone, but like if I have found any sort of opiate on the ground or anything. I would just take it.
Vincent Chopyk: And the buprenorphine i i took like twice, I think, and that like I mean for a couple days. I didn't have any you know like craving or anything. I didn't like it made me feel
Vincent Chopyk: Like even doubt and but the at once, it would wear off after a couple days and I would just go back to it like I wasn't really taking the buprenorphine to. It was really just to
Vincent Chopyk: See Cambodia, just the longevity, just like because I knew it would last couple days.
Vincent Chopyk: So just so I wouldn't run out as fast
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay. And have you ever taken now trek zone or the vivid trial injection
Vincent Chopyk: No, no, no.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and how about other substance use. Do you have you ever felt like, well, I guess, I guess, most importantly, currently are using any other substances right now.
Vincent Chopyk: No, I mean I am taking
Vincent Chopyk: What's it called sertraline is Zoloft, I'm taking that now.
Vincent Chopyk: I my doctor started me at 25 and then we moved up to 50 and then I just recently saw a
Vincent Chopyk: Doctor through the tele doc, the one that let me know about you guys, and he moved me up to 100 because he said that it helps the anxiety at higher doses.
Vincent Chopyk: And other than that I use. I had been taking Adderall. For years, like since high school. There was a couple times when I took a break, like a year off of taking Adderall.
Vincent Chopyk: And that I never really like had a problem with like I always took what I was prescribed and never like turned into like I didn't feel like I was abusing the Adderall, but
Vincent Chopyk: Once I started to take the pain pills, it kind of like my tolerance for the Adderall went up a lot. I'm not sure if that's but then I
Vincent Chopyk: Like it started to be like, I don't know it. So then I stopped taking the Adderall as well. Once I just because I never didn't want to take it forever. So once I quit the pain pills and this whole thing happened. I just decided that might as well get them all in one swoop there.
Michael Hoefer: That's so it sounds like you were diagnosed ADHD.
Michael Hoefer: Like as a child, or as a teenager.
Vincent Chopyk: As a teenager.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and the Adderall. You're taking was immediate release or extended release.
Vincent Chopyk: I, at first it was concert, which I think is Ritalin extended release and then
Vincent Chopyk: That was in high school and then in college, I took a year off my first year college. I wasn't taking any and then I was having trouble in school. So I started taking the instant release Admiral
Vincent Chopyk: And then it was that I took another break for about a year, like two years after that and then continued and then it had been just until about a month ago. So for like a good for four years. I was taking it. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And as far as the sertraline you've been on that, for how long now.
Vincent Chopyk: That's been maybe like three months. So I started taking it.
Vincent Chopyk: Before I stopped while I was still taking the pain pills and everything. So it's been the end, maybe three or four months.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And do you notice anything from the sertraline especially now that you've been off opiates for a month.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah. Now I've just recently started to feel a little bit better, like just less like that for a while there. I just had no energy at all like I was also taking Clonidine because they said it would help with the withdrawal.
Vincent Chopyk: And then once I I ran out of those and I stopped taking them for a couple days and then I felt like a lot better, like a little like more energy and just less like depressed overall like
Vincent Chopyk: It was getting really bad there for like a couple weeks, like, a week ago or so, like where I was just like laying on the couch all day like I wasn't showering or anything, and
Vincent Chopyk: Like not brushing my teeth and like it was just bad. And then once I stopped taking the Clonidine, now I have a little bit more energy, but I still like don't feel back to normal completely. I still feel like yeah just lack of like motivation to do anything and stuff like that.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, I mean, it sounds like you know a couple things could be going on. One is like you've gone through the acute withdrawal of opiates, but there's still can be like protracted abstinence symptoms which can last weeks to months, you know,
Michael Hoefer: That's often like depression, anxiety, just for a day or two ability, things like that.
Michael Hoefer: And then the other thing is, you know, I don't know, but it sounds like you could have
Michael Hoefer: Also been, you know, struggling with depression as well.
Vincent Chopyk: So yeah, I think I was. Yeah, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And did it, did it ever get so bad, where you're feeling suicidal.
Vincent Chopyk: Not like maybe passively like once I got like I never had any real intention of doing it, but like when I got busted and I was sitting in the jail cell like I kind of like was just like, and I lost my job and just like feeling kind of hopeless and
Vincent Chopyk: So I kind of had some passive thoughts but like nothing like serious like I never had any real like intention to do anything.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever had a suicide attempt or tried to harm yourself in the past.
Vincent Chopyk: No. Okay.
Good.
Michael Hoefer: And have you, you know, as far as these days do you do you smoke cigarettes to use cannabis. Do you drink. Do you do any of those things.
Vincent Chopyk: I don't drink very much
Vincent Chopyk: Like maybe like I'll have one drink at my grandmother's house when we go there for dinner. Like, it's not nothing like nothing much. And then I do smoke tobacco and I do use like smoke marijuana
Vincent Chopyk: And like the tobacco. I use this. It's not cigarettes. It's called. It's like pipe tobacco and I smoke it out of my bomb that I use for my the weed.
Vincent Chopyk: It's called Dhaka
Vincent Chopyk: Kind of not very popular. But, and it's just like I just take one bowl of Dhaka and I do them separately. So I haven't been smoking as much we because the anxieties been given me a lot like paranoia and stuff.
Vincent Chopyk: So I've been kind of laying off that like if I can't fall asleep at night, I might take one but then that kind of doesn't help because then I get all
Vincent Chopyk: In my head and anxious and that makes me stay up and and I've been staying up to like four in the morning and sleeping so like noon or one in the afternoon, like
Michael Hoefer: That's not ideal but that's like going back to teenage sleep cycle.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, it's driving me
Vincent Chopyk: Crazy. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And the other thing that it sounds like you're experiencing, which is, you know, actually quite common is as people get older.
Michael Hoefer: And as they have other drug experiences or other mental health experiences that cannabis. Can the way it affects you can really change. You know when you're a teenager, it can be quite fun and laughing and eating hanging out with friends and then
Michael Hoefer: As you get older can sometimes switch to where it can be quite angiogenic for make you very self conscious or make you paranoid.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and it's, it's just, it can be very different. And it's a learning process to kind of learn about that and also kind of be like okay, it's not like it used to be. And even though my mind tells me it's going to do this for me.
Michael Hoefer: And actually, isn't that it's actually this really
Michael Hoefer: A verse of experience.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah yeah
Michael Hoefer: So that's a learning process and certainly something we can you know help you with and work on
Michael Hoefer: Because definitely you know in your position with, you know, not only that potentially the cognitive stuff from ADHD, but also some of the anxiety stuff usually cannabis makes both of those worse, you know. Yeah.
So,
Michael Hoefer: Okay, then you know any other things like, you know, have you ever now or in the past felt like you had a problem with cocaine or math or
Michael Hoefer: Anything else Benz or anything like that. No.
Vincent Chopyk: Just the pain pills and dad are all, I guess. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: All right, and so some other kind of more background questions. Have you ever been put on a 5150 year but in a psychiatric hospital.
Vincent Chopyk: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And have you seen a psychiatrist or therapist for periods of time.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Never. Okay, so even the ADHD treatment was from like a primary care doctor and
Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: All right. And have you ever been in substance abuse treatment in the past.
Vincent Chopyk: No. Now before before this now. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right, great. Well, you're new to treatment. So
Welcome
To new experience.
Michael Hoefer: Okay and medical issues. Do you have any medical issues we need to know about.
Vincent Chopyk: No, not really. The only thing which I actually is better now was my blood pressure was kind of going. That's like my
Vincent Chopyk: It was just like not consistently super high but like sometimes it would be really high. Sometimes it would be normal. And this was over, because I had to go to my doctor every month to get a prescription for Adderall.
Vincent Chopyk: Mm hmm. And so she kind of was concerned about my blood pressure because it was just so weird and I
Vincent Chopyk: She didn't know that I was taking the pain pills, which I think is what was causing those like differences and blood pressure because sometimes I would go in and be
Vincent Chopyk: Could do going through minor withdrawals because I ran out. Sometimes I would be on them like at the moment when I went in and so she put me on Lisinopril for that.
Vincent Chopyk: And the Clonidine once I went to her after I stopped taking everything
Vincent Chopyk: But then like last night I checked my blood pressure and it was like 132 over 78 or something. So it's kind of gone back to normal now.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great.
Michael Hoefer: And you're at this point are you still taking them will send a pro.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, though I sent a pro. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And you stop the quantity
Michael Hoefer: Yeah okay and any other history of like surgeries or problems with your heart, lungs, kidneys,
Vincent Chopyk: Liver and things like that. No, no. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Any allergies any medications bad reactions any medications.
Vincent Chopyk: Not that I know. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Anybody in your family that you know siblings parents aunts, uncles, that have addiction issues that you know
Vincent Chopyk: Well, my, my grandfather has been taking. He was a fisherman and so his back, and he had cancer at like 50 so he's just had a bunch of health issues, like, ever since I was born, and he
Vincent Chopyk: Has been taking pain pills, my whole life and in the be like when I was younger, it didn't seem like it was an issue like he was taking them to see at pain but, like, more recently, it kind of is like
Vincent Chopyk: I don't know the that's the only thing I think it's more come become an addiction like thing than it is like, it's not just pain management and the more like it's more about taking that next dose for him.
Vincent Chopyk: And my dad has. I mean, he's been drinking. Ever since he's a pharmacist and he was working clinical at the hospital here in town.
Vincent Chopyk: And he was okay then. And then he got switched to an office job and he started drinking a lot. And so that's been for the past like
Vincent Chopyk: Few years like four years, maybe he's been he drinks like more than he probably should like i think i would i would say he's an alcoholic. You know, we've never talked about it or anything.
Michael Hoefer: Is anybody else in your family ever expressed concern about his drinking
Vincent Chopyk: My mom kind of has like we've talked about it a little bit.
Vincent Chopyk: Like she didn't overtly say it was like that. He's an alcoholic. But she we've we've can express concern to each other about it. So yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And anybody in the family with the history of psychiatric issues like depression, bipolar schizophrenia, anything like that.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I mean there. It's there a Sicilian family. And they're like, my grandfather was born in Sicily, so they're, they're not very open to like therapy and stuff. I think everybody in the family can use
Vincent Chopyk: Some sort of therapy. But yeah, there's like some OCD over there on my mom's side.
Vincent Chopyk: And then on my dad's side. My uncle has skits like I would, I think, I don't know if he's ever been diagnosed, but he's he's like paranoid schizophrenia. He thinks the government is coming after him and he scrambles his phone number. If he calls. He does all this weird kind of stuff.
Vincent Chopyk: In my brother. I think my half brother. I think he has been struggling with depression for a long time. Just undiagnosed and like he kind of just sits in his house and plays video games all day. That's kind of all he does.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I think there's like a fair amount on either side. It's kind of like both ends the thing. It's like OCD on one side and then the spectrum. On the other
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: So you've got some genetic risks, not only for, you know, substance use, but also for some psychiatric mental health.
Vincent Chopyk: Issues.
Michael Hoefer: On both sides that
Vincent Chopyk: You gotta be
Michael Hoefer: Careful about and navigate yeah okay and then just some more background questions. Where were you born and where did you grow up, mostly
Vincent Chopyk: I was born in Monterey and I grew up here in Monterey still live here.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, because my whole my mom's whole family big Italian family in town lives here. So yeah, we've just been born and raised here.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and how far along. Did you go in school.
Vincent Chopyk: I have a bachelor's degree in Liberal Studies. I got that done, which I'm glad I got that done before all this stuff started to happen.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I have a bachelor's
Michael Hoefer: And where did you go to school for that.
Vincent Chopyk: at CSU MB is the California State University of Monterey Bay.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And it sounds like most of your work experience has been like pharmacy technician, as we call it, or for me.
Vincent Chopyk: Now, I was just a clerk and it was like it's a it was a family owned pharmacy.
Vincent Chopyk: For like I worked there for five years right out of high school until the family sold it to Rite Aid and then
Vincent Chopyk: I left once right a control that I left for a while and worked at another job here in town at its shop calm as a website.
Vincent Chopyk: And then I hated that job so that I quit that and then I ended up going back and working because my old manager still manages the store, even though it's right now. And then I went back to work for her for
Vincent Chopyk: A month or so before I got cut taking the pills.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And do you have any. I mean, was working in pharmacy. Is that something that you've thought about as a career or do you have any thoughts about kind of stuff you want to do career wise.
Vincent Chopyk: I'm not. I mean, my intention with the Liberal Studies degree was to like be a teacher. And my mom, I have a bunch of family that's an education. And so I was kind of planning on that. But once I got done and I went to the teaching credential program like the orientation for it.
Vincent Chopyk: I don't know, I kind of just got cold feet. I guess that that orientation meeting and I just decided I would go and work somewhere and kind of explore, like, see if what I really wanted to do, but I still kind of am lost when it comes to what I want to do is like career.
Michael Hoefer: You're, you're in the you're figuring out kind of what what you want to do kind of figuring out what your what the meaning in your life is and kind of
Michael Hoefer: Waiting on
Michael Hoefer: What path. You want to go on.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, okay. And have you ever been married or do you have any children.
Vincent Chopyk: No. Okay.
Great.
Michael Hoefer: All right, and then
Michael Hoefer: You know, I think we talked a little bit about just going back to some of the mental health issues. It sounds like you know anxiety levels running high, just in general.
Michael Hoefer: And also potentially some social
Michael Hoefer: Anxiety, which is around kind of confidence around. I imagine public speaking or being judged or actually center of attention type stuff.
Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: It sounds like the depression, mostly in line with the
Michael Hoefer: opiate use but may also be something that would should be monitored going forward.
Michael Hoefer: And then ADHD is something
Michael Hoefer: You've had a diagnosis, since a teenager and been treated
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah periods of time.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever had things like you know hearing voices when other people aren't around or seeing things when other people aren't around
Vincent Chopyk: Now,
Michael Hoefer: They're annoyed psychotic symptoms.
Vincent Chopyk: I mean parrot like the paranoid. But now, not to the point where it's like psychotic or hearing things or anything like that.
Vincent Chopyk: Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Is it most, is it more paranoia, like people are, you know,
Michael Hoefer: talking bad about you or
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, that kind of stuff.
Michael Hoefer: But not like the government is trying to
Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever had a period of time in your life where you like stayed up for multiple days without using drugs and felt like you didn't need any sleep, but you just had like all the energy in the world and
Vincent Chopyk: No, I've only had that when I was taking the drugs. I like there was a couple nights where especially when I was trying to quit taking them where I would just, I went through the whole night without sleeping at all. And like just didn't feel like I felt tired, but no, not like sleepy.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, there was a couple of times like that, but never before.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Well, those are the the main questions. I need to ask you kind of for intake.
Michael Hoefer: Thank you for answering. I know there's, it's a lot. Do you have any questions for me at this time, or is there anything that I didn't ask you about or feel like you know it's important for me to know right now.
Vincent Chopyk: I'm like, I guess the only thing else is like recently, the only thing that's made me want to like even not really want to, but think about like having like a craving kind of
Vincent Chopyk: Is been i've been gaining weight like you recently, like with them since I stopped and that like once I started to notice it like I was like Oh my, like, cuz I had an issue with like how I look. Always and
Vincent Chopyk: Like the pills was kind of helping that because it was I was only eating for sustenance, like I wasn't eating for pleasure or anything.
Vincent Chopyk: Mm hmm. Now that I've noticed like some weight gain. That was the I noticed the first time that I thought like, oh, like
Vincent Chopyk: Not that I needed to take them, but just that, like it was weird. It was kind of like a craving, but also just kind of like a fear of gaining this weight like made me kind of scare be
Vincent Chopyk: kind of scared me back towards wanting to take them. That was like the first because I was absolutely
Vincent Chopyk: Done for especially like after I got caught. I was completely done with the pills like there was no chance. I was gonna ever you know relapse or anything. And then once I started. Notice that it made me like just kind of like, I don't know, I had the thought.
Vincent Chopyk: So,
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, that's a that's an that's an important one to track because certainly opiate use, you know, you don't have an appetite, you lose weight, there's like a whole heroin chic thing, not that you're using heroin. But that's kind of the hype, you know,
Michael Hoefer: How much weight have you gained
Vincent Chopyk: I would say probably about 1010 pounds, maybe right now 10 or maybe 12
Michael Hoefer: And where you are right now compared to like the heaviest you've ever been.
Vincent Chopyk: I'm not quite at the heaviest I've ever been. I'm probably like 10 to 15 pounds under the heaviest
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. But right now, are you, what would your, you know, what's your kind of I were, what's your weight right now. What's your ideal weight would you say
Vincent Chopyk: Like right now, I'm probably like 190 or some like around that.
Vincent Chopyk: But my ideal weight is like 180 to like 178 so like, like that's kind of where I hovered for a while, when I was okay with how I looked
Vincent Chopyk: So yeah, that's like right in the middle of the heaviest and the lightest
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. So you're about 10 to 12 pounds away from where you'd like to be
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. And are you, you know, are you exercising these days.
Vincent Chopyk: And no, I haven't been, I've been kind of like trying to gear up to go for runs and do that kind of stuff, but I haven't been able to muster the energy
Michael Hoefer: I mean, it's hard. You know when you're going through withdrawals and
Michael Hoefer: That is
Michael Hoefer: Certainly something that's really helpful, especially in recovery and like you're going through a really big transition right now of coming off of the opiates and getting kind of back to not being on them.
Michael Hoefer: That's a huge transition for your body to go through. And one of the things that takes time and I'm talking weeks or months is also your body transitioning to feeling like pleasure and normal things again. So like
Michael Hoefer: Pleasure in
Michael Hoefer: Exercise pleasure and like you know hanging out with people feather and sex food, things like that, you know,
Michael Hoefer: The one tricky. One is with addiction is sometimes food because a lot of times if you start a certain addiction that addictive energy can just transfer to food and
Vincent Chopyk: Especially
Michael Hoefer: Like sweet food or carbs, you know, like those two things in that a dictum energy and come out that way. And so that's why people in early recovery often gain a fair amount of weight, you know,
Michael Hoefer: And I don't know if you, if that's something you've been
Vincent Chopyk: Sure, yeah. I think with the carbs, especially coming from the Italian
Vincent Chopyk: Method. It's always the comfort food with the spaghetti and everything.
Vincent Chopyk: So yeah, it's been kind of yeah going towards eating, which I've been trying to keep track of and not eat so much. Yeah. It's just, I don't know.
Vincent Chopyk: Stuff.
Michael Hoefer: And in the, in the past, are there any you know exercise activities that you liked in the past that anything that you've ever really enjoyed
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I liked swimming a lot like more than running. I've never been much of a runner. I played water polo and did the swim team in high school.
Vincent Chopyk: And so I used to like like swimming laps, just the only place you can do that in town right now is a little too expensive for me right now to pay for a membership.
Vincent Chopyk: Especially because I lost my job. So now I trying to save as much money as I can. So I was planning on just going for some runs and it's been raining a lot, but now the weather's getting nicer outside so so
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. And then, you know, and I think the next thing we should kind of talk about is
Michael Hoefer: You know opiate addiction and what the research kind of shows about, you know, prognosis and things
Michael Hoefer: Like that. And so
Michael Hoefer: Specifically, you're in a very interesting position because usually when people come into treatment they're using. And they're about to be in withdrawal and they need help right away you know
Michael Hoefer: But you're in a very different position because you're about a month out from using
Michael Hoefer: You've had, you know, certainly have what we consider an opioid use disorder and opiate addiction for about, you know, two years, or however long
Michael Hoefer: And there's really two different
Michael Hoefer: Approaches that you could take right now and we don't. An either one would would make total sense. Okay, so one is to do what you initially suggested, which is get into treatment continue to abstain from opiates.
Michael Hoefer: And, and, you know, start doing our groups and our counseling and learning coping skills and seeing how that goes.
Michael Hoefer: The other option would be to and that option can either be just
Michael Hoefer: You know psychotherapy and behavioral management or we could also add a medication called Naltrexone to that.
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: You know you have a pharmacy background. So you might already know what Naltrexone is
Vincent Chopyk: I kind of I've heard the name, but I'm not entirely sure what it is.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So would it be okay if I told you a little bit about it.
Michael Hoefer: Oh yeah. Okay. Sure. So now tracks on is an opiate blocker. And the nice thing about it is it's a medication. It's not an opioid so you don't get high off it. You can't develop tolerance to it. You can't overdose on it. If you start taking it. You don't go into withdrawal.
Michael Hoefer: But what it basically does is it just goes into your
Michael Hoefer: Brain and bias opiate receptors and blocks them. And so what it does is it decreases cravings for opiates and also if you were to use an opiate it would basically just bounce off and you wouldn't feel anything. And you would say
Michael Hoefer: Oh, that was a waste of money. I'm not going to do that again.
Michael Hoefer: And so that's a, that's a, that's a medication that we can potentially use it's available both in a pill form. And it's also available in a once a month injection
Michael Hoefer: And the nice thing about the medication is it's very, you know, very low side effects not really any big risks.
Michael Hoefer: The only kind of risk of the medication is people, especially with opioid use disorder don't always take it consistently look like that, especially orally, they'll take it.
Michael Hoefer: And and those and then sometimes they'll say, oh, I want to use they'll stop taking it and then within three days it's out of your system and then you can do, you know,
Michael Hoefer: But the pros of it is, like I said, it helps with cravings and it's not an opiate so that's good. And that's a medication, you could take either daily
Michael Hoefer: For a maintenance.
Michael Hoefer: Or you could also just have it on hand in case you started experiencing cravings, or you were going to go into a risky situation like hanging out, you know, with somebody that usually use the opiates with or go to the, I don't know.
Vincent Chopyk: And the line or something, I don't know. And, you know, you would you would want to be protected.
Michael Hoefer: So that's an option. The other option would be to start something like Suboxone, you know, and even though you're not currently using opiates the argument for doing that would be
Michael Hoefer: For opiate addiction for people who just kind of stopped on their own and detox is what you did.
Michael Hoefer: data shows that there's about a 90% chance of relapse within one year.
Michael Hoefer: And some of those people who relapse, you know, have really bad outcomes like you've had, you know, losing your job getting arrested and then you know it gets worse and you start to end people transition to, you know, injecting or heroin or things like that people can die very easily.
Michael Hoefer: And so, the thing about Suboxone, is it really it, it is very effective at presenting presenting, all of those things, um, the downsides of Suboxone is it is a type of opiate. I mean, the good thing about it is most people on it. Say I just feel normal. I don't feel like I'm on an opiate
Michael Hoefer: It also you don't tend to go up on the dose over a while it can help with kind of pain. It also has some mood like antidepressant effects and it also definitely helps with addiction and if you were to take an opiate, it would also block it and
Michael Hoefer: The op would bounce off and you would say, okay, that was a waste of time. I'm not gonna do
That
Michael Hoefer: So those are different options you have at this point. And I think it's just useful to kind of know what your options are and also kind of think about what would make
Michael Hoefer: You know, most sense. So I guess I'd want to pause for a second and just see if you have any questions about those options and or if you also have an idea of kind of which way you, you think, would you would want to go.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I mean, I've kind of thought about like I had read a little bit about the Suboxone type stuff. And I think right now like I want to just try and do it without
Vincent Chopyk: But I mean, it's nice to know that that's an option, like in case
Vincent Chopyk: I don't know in case something happens like he said like yeah cuz one of my best friends, is the one who I used to do it a lot with and he's actually stopped. He didn't get in any trouble or anything, but he stopped using to
Vincent Chopyk: Okay, great. So I don't think that's going to come up as an issue or anything. So yeah, I think I want to try and do it with just the therapy and stuff like that. But yeah, it is. I mean, it's nice to know that there's that option there.
Michael Hoefer: Great. I think that makes a lot of sense based on where you're at and it's good to know that you don't have, kind of, you don't have people you're living with your close friends that are using a lot and
Michael Hoefer: You have, I mean, you have people that are calling you on the phone and saying, Hey, I've got axes. What you want to buy some like you have that
Vincent Chopyk: Thing you know it was actually my friend that's doing it. It was always through him. I didn't
Vincent Chopyk: Have any one's number or anything. So that's been kind of nice because if I ever wanted.
Vincent Chopyk: Them. Again, I would have to go through him. And I think right now, you probably punch me in the face by asking
Michael Hoefer: That's good. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. All right. Well, then, I think it sounds clear that the plan should be what would put you into our opioid use disorder track which basically most of our treatments in group settings via phone, and there'll be a continuity physician and the continuity therapists will be working with
Michael Hoefer: And working on coping skills and things like that will also be doing some drug screen monitoring with you just to make sure that you're not using and that also can help with reducing cravings and just keep kind of things structured
Michael Hoefer: And then I would just would want a situation to where you know if you were having a lot of cravings to us, or if especially if you were to have a slip and go back to it.
Michael Hoefer: That you would let us know you know as soon as possible. And then we could think about next steps. And that would that would likely be a recommendation to starting Suboxone you know
Vincent Chopyk: Go back to it.
Michael Hoefer: And I think that's, that's a good approach. And then the other thing we could do. Now it's up to you is I could give you a prescription for Naltrexone just to have at like as needed in case
Michael Hoefer: Started to get you got found yourself in a situation to where you have a lot of cravings, or you're going into a risky situation and you could just have them in case of emergency.
Michael Hoefer: Or we could also hold off on that. If you want to
Michael Hoefer: Just see how it's going. And we could do that if you had a slip or if you got into a difficult situation.
Vincent Chopyk: I mean, yeah, I mean I wouldn't mind having the option. They're like, we want to do the prescription
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, just in case, like, yeah, I don't know, especially like I don't know why it's affecting me so much, but especially with this weight gain, like it's really like made me like I don't know like
Vincent Chopyk: Before I was so sure of like that I wasn't gonna and then all sudden, it kind of just like I don't know it freaked me out. So yeah, maybe having the prescription as needed. What else. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, that's good. And the other thing that you know about on track. So that has it's not high level research evidence, but there's some, you know, moderate to low level evidence that now tracks own can also
Michael Hoefer: It is now Jackson is often used in some combination products for a weight loss as well.
Michael Hoefer: And it also in specifically
Michael Hoefer: It can help with some of the kind of like binge eating compulsive eating you know carb stuff we were talking about
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: But also if you use it PRN every once in a while it might also help with that.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And so I'll give you, I'll give you basically like a 30 tablets have it a one month supply
Michael Hoefer: And just to write it. Just take it as needed for you know cravings mostly for opiates.
Michael Hoefer: And you'll have that just kind of as needed. And the nice thing about that is sometimes even just having that prescription, even if you don't ever use it. It's kind of like a security blanket or anxiety, you know,
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah, I think I've had that kind of feeling before we're just having it like even with the opiates, like we're just having them like around kind of made me like not feel as like much. I needed to do them like even if I wouldn't take any so yeah I know what you mean by that.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: Excellent. And then the other thing I would just mention another resource for these things, you know, in addition to our groups is. I mean, things are kind of tough now with shelter in place and there's not a lot going on in the world.
Michael Hoefer: But there is a website called
Michael Hoefer: In the rooms calm.
Michael Hoefer: And they do online meetings like mutual support group meetings all day.
Michael Hoefer: And they have. It's really cool. They have almost anything you can think of on it. So they have a Na, of course, but they also have like life ring and smart recovery and Dharma recovery and
Michael Hoefer: Any type of addiction. There's a bunch of overeaters stuff on there too. Like, and it's a real. It's a free website you can log on and do video stuff with
Michael Hoefer: And so I'd encourage you to check just check that out because it may, you know, while you're getting rolled up in our, in our clinic. That'll be useful, but those mutual support groups also have a lot of evidence for being really helpful.
Vincent Chopyk: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And if you're just look if you have a lot of hours in your life right now that you need to
Michael Hoefer: Fit hop on one of those and just kind of see how it goes.
Vincent Chopyk: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So yeah, so I'll put that in the note and encourage you, just to check it out and see if it's something that's helpful for you.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And I think that is it for now.
Michael Hoefer: Any other questions before we wrap up.
Vincent Chopyk: No, I think I'm good.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, cool. And let me just make sure I have the right pharmacy for you here and our
Record.
Michael Hoefer: Alright, looks like the Rite Aid on Mon RAS Avenue.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. Okay. Cool. Alright, so I'll put in that electronic prescription right after we get off and you can pick it up, you know, tonight or tomorrow or whatever.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Janelle checks on
Michael Hoefer: And I wish you the best of luck and welcome to our program.
Vincent Chopyk: Yeah. Thank you, appreciate everything
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, cool. All right, take care.
Everyone
Vincent Chopyk: Bye.